---
title: Building A More Intelligent Library
layout: post
post-image: /assets/images/bu_thesis_sensor.jpg
project-image:
description: A low-cost space management solution to efficiently manage hot-desking in a university environment.
repo-link:
tags:
- C++
- ESP-IDF
- ESP32
- MQTT
- Mesh Networking
---

The university library of the future looks vastly different than those of the past. With the ubiquity of media freely available on the internet, libraries are no longer predominately an institution used for accessing knowledge. Their mission now is to be a space to foster learning. Tackling these new demands can be efficiently handled through the strategic deployment of IoT systems, such as systems that help library users find available workspaces suitable for their learning needs.

Desk-based occupancy sensors would reduce burdens faced by patrons when searching for a suitable workspace. A solution would need to be robust enough to deal with obstructions to data transmissions while being simple enough to not deter adoption. Deployment of a mesh-based desk sensor network can help limit complexity of individual devices while providing obstruction avoidance through a multi-hop transmission protocol.

Artefact development culminated in a device whose core components consists of an ESP32 microcontroller and a single cell thermal sensor. Evaluation of the artefact shows the proposed solution can provide a reliable metric with regards to the current availability status of a workspace.

---

## Features
* Self-Orgainzing Mesh Network
* Thermal Occupancy Sensing
* Expandable Network
* Low Adoption Cost

---

## Hardware
* Microcontroller       ESP32-WROOM
* Thermopile Sensor     MLX90614
* Loudness Sensor       KY-037 (Optional)
* DC Regulator	        muRata OKI-78SR

---

## Software Libraries
* ESP Now
* WiFi (& WiFi Client Secure)
* Adafruit MQTT (& Adafruit MQTT Client)
* Adafruit MLX90614